I'm legally really not meant to comment
on the Tinder Times. And I don't even
know if I've told the story,
but
Whitney Wilpurd, the CEO and founder of
Bumble. Whitney became one of the few
women who can add billionaire to her
title. The dating app that puts women in
charge of making the first move. Making
the first move can change your life, but
you have to do it. No one can do it for
you. Which would then become Bumble's
entire mantra. I've seen all the things
that Bumble have done over the years,
and it's always seems to be original in
its nature.
It was a lot of these tiny hacking
concepts that made no sense. No one had
ever done these things before, but if
you understand what moves and motivates
people, then you have this opportunity
to connect with them. And so that's been
the superpower of ours over the years.
As 31 years old, you're the youngest
woman to take a company public.
What's the personal toll on you in those
moments?
It's been pretty dark. It's been pretty
heavy.
Your departure from Tinder read to me
like it was horrific and sexist.
It was soul crashing. I was being
described in all sorts of ways. I had
reporters trying to go through my window
and it was really violating. There's a
whole persona that's been created about
me out there in the world. How am I ever
going to escape this? I was 24 years
old.
If I asked your teams, what would you
like as a leader? What would they say to
me?
I don't know. We did ask them.
Oh,
so
[Music]
Whitney,
what is the early context
that I would have to understand about
you and your life to understand you?
I think
probably broken gender dynamics.
growing up. I So I grew up in Salt Lake
City, Utah.
I don't know if you know much about Salt
Lake City, Utah.
Yep. So it's a very LDS is kind of the
formal religious term um or better known
as Mormon place.
And my dad is Jewish and my mother is
Catholic. So, I'm already total
um anomaly in this place. And it's a
very tough community to fit into when
you don't
look, act, behave like everybody else or
have the exact same belief systems. And
the Mormon faith and the LDS faith, not
to generalize, but it's very much a
community, or at least it was. I was
born in 1989. So, growing up back in the
90s, it was very much um a man's world
where the man is um the you know the
bread winner, the man is out, mom is at
home in an apron and everyone follows
rules, lots of rules, uh very strict
rules in fact. And I think I always grew
up with a
conflicting set of values to my
community to this ecosystem I was placed
in or was raised in rather and then that
started to come out in relationships. So
my first, you know, real boyfriend that
I ever had, it was quite toxic. And
these were kind of um these undertones
of my entire life that would then set
the stage for my entire career.
Using that first relationship, that
first sort of toxic relationship as an
example of how your belief system at
that point was causing problems. Um
could you give me some color to to what
you mean there?
Yeah, it was a it was, you know, it was
a new experience for me. I was a young
young girl at the time and I think there
was this set of behaviors I was expected
to adhere to to be on his rules his his
um you know what he believed was right
and it was quite demoralizing frankly
and I don't think at the time I fully
recognized what was taking place until
later in life but it set the stage for
me about unhealthy relationships And I
recognized just how unequal women were
when it came to their romantic
relationships. So if you were to fast
forward, here I am running this business
where women make the first move, which
when I put that into the product in 2014
was squawkked at and eyes were rolled
and people couldn't understand why we
would do such a thing because women
aren't supposed to talk first. So if you
look at that moment of a business being
born, there's so much more than just a
Eureka thought. It's really pent up
years and years of confusion, passion,
purpose brewing to essentially be born
into this moment of bumble.
Were you rebelling at all against that
environment or that belief system? I
think there was
two sides of that coin. There was the
side that wanted to fit in, desperate to
be a part of my community, desperate to
be a part of what was around me and to
fit in and to fit the mold because
that's humans. Humans want to fit into
their environments. They want to be
accepted. No one wants to be the child
sitting alone at the lunch table. This
is what devastates humans to be left
out, right? So, there was a part of me
that so desperately wanted validation
and to fit. And then there was a part of
me that said, "This is wrong. This
doesn't feel right. This feels against
my soul. This doesn't feel like how
things should be." And I feel like
that's been a theme of my life. There's
been duality on on this topic in every
every situation I've been in. And that's
that's part of navigating it.
How do we navigate that duality? Because
we all we all experience those sort of
conflicting needs at the same time.
Often one of them is like an external
one can colliding with an internal need
that's going unmet. And it feels
sometimes like we have to choose as you
said like the external comfort of
fitting in or validation versus like
this doesn't feel good to me.
Yeah.
Inside.
I think for me at least
I have to live in a place of
authenticity.
And I've lived in chapters of my life
that were not authentic. That I knew
what I was participating in or what I
was doing didn't feel authentic to what
I really believed in or what I knew to
be right. Um, and genuinely authenticity
wins. That's my fundamental belief. And
I think that when you follow and chase
that authentic space,
the world opens up for you. the world
unlocks.
Sometimes in the short term when we
especially if we've had a prolonged
period of being inauthentic, what we've
done accidentally and inadvertently is
created an environment and a community
and a job and a and a and an environment
where that's built on that
inauthenticity. So to make the change to
to one day be like, do you know what?
Today I'm gonna be authentic requires it
seems like quite a lot of short-term
loss, espec disapproval. people going
stay stay stay stay stay stay stay stay
stay stay in line stay who we thought
you were you know be the person that we
resonated with even if that was your
inauthentic self so that like I think I
see so many people kind of contend with
that they want they kind of might know
who they are that voice inside but the
apparent cost of pursuing it seems cir
as mom and dad and my boyfriend and I'd
have to leave the city and my job and my
friendship you know
of course you have to leave the tribe
yeah that's terrifying
terrifying
It's almost
unimaginable for people. And
I've been there. I've felt that feeling
before. And I think this is why so many
people stay in whatever situation
they're in, stay in a marriage, stay in
a business, stay in a church, stay in a
team, stay in a you name it. This is
what perpetuates the cycle of of the
quest to
fit in versus
just truly being who you really are. And
so that age-old saying, be yourself,
it's harder than it looks. It's really
hard and it comes with a lot of risk and
it's scary and it's dangerous and what
if I fail and what if no one likes me
and what if everyone judges me? These
are real things, but at the end of the
day, nothing could be worse than having
a broken relationship with yourself,
right? I personally think a broken
relationship with yourself is more toxic
than a pseudo phony good relationship
with a hundred other people.
But it's hard to give ourselves that
love and compassion. We're hard on
ourselves. The things we say to oursel
is something we would never say to
another ever. I mean, think about that
rhetoric, the internal self-t talk. We
would never say those things to other
people, right? And the compliments we
pay others, it's very hard to pay
ourselves. So, when you think about that
narrative, how can we expect people to
have the confidence and courage to be
authentic to themselves if they're not
even willing to accept themselves? So, I
think that's a big piece of it, right?
And I've watched
over the years women I grew up with in
Salt Lake City just now in their 30s.
They're coming out of their cage.
They're quite literally coming alive and
they're taking to Tik Tok and to social
media and they're taking to all these
platforms
like a roaring lion saying I'm alive and
I've been hiding and I've been living by
standards and I've been living by rules
and I've been living by X Y and Z and
it's not authentic. So at some point it
will burst open you know like that the
truth is the truth does prevail.
When you were when you were 18 what was
acceptance or success to you? What if I
asked you at 18 years old what you want
to be post uni when you grow up? What
would the answer have been at that
point?
Well the answer of what I really wanted
to be was not what I would have said
because I would have said something to
fit in. Right? That's standard. So, I
think the young women when I was in
college all wanted to go work for a
fashion brand or get a job at a bank or
be successful and they wanted to get
married and they wanted to find someone
that they could marry, settle down with,
have kids with eventually, maybe not
next year, but that was part of the
program, right? This dating game exists
as college students. And
this is where the undertones of Bumble
started to really form because I
remember being in college and
being completely judged and made fun of
by girlfriends of mine if I texted a guy
first. I remember I went on a date which
was so out of my character. I really,
believe it or not, being so ingrained in
the dating world. I think I've been on
maybe three dates in my life. That
sounds weird, but I went on a date and
then I texted the guy afterwards. And
they were like, "Oh no, you have
committed a sin. A sin. Like you should
be ashamed of yourself." It made me cry.
I felt so embarrassed. I felt so
ashamed. And I remember thinking, "This
is wrong. What is wrong with you? Why
why can we not text? Who wrote these
rules? What are these rules? These ru
rules are ridiculous." So this this
desire to break the rules, change the
rules, rewrite the rules was something I
inherently felt deep down. But
everybody's felt that, you felt that,
everybody has felt that it's just who
chooses to go and actually act on it is
the difference. Do you I was I was
thinking then when you when you talked
about um being 18 and having this kind
of sort of social expectation of what
success would look like and then having
a family was the orientation of a lot of
young women at that point. Do you think
there are any gender differences that
are innate to us that have
a bearing on the path or the way that we
show up that are innate? I not social
constructs, but do you think there's
anything in us as as men and women that
makes us want different things from
birth innately?
You know, it's a good question. And I
have two little boys right now. And I
think a lot of this is imposed on us as
a society. I really do. I think the toys
we buy our children and the clothes we
put on our children and the shows we
show our children, you have to really
ask yourself, is this not truly forming
what they're interested in and what they
care about and what their ambitions are.
I do believe that
there may be something, and I see this
in men too,
to folks that genuinely want to have a
family and have children and be part of
that type of a life. And then folks that
just genuinely don't. But I don't really
see it with I don't think it's a gender
thing. I really think that these are
just a personal
soul level thing. But I think society
comes in
and puts bows on it or puts trucks on it
and says, "Here's your path." So, it's
it's interesting now raising kids seeing
if I really believe this nature versus
nurture thing. And I think there's
components to it, but I think it's
definitely more
imposed upon us by others around. This
morning, I was watching my son read a
book at breakfast. I don't know where he
found the book. I think it was something
he found at the restaurant. But I opened
it and it was a picture of a pig family
in a little house and you could see
everything in all the different rooms.
And daddy was upstairs in the bathroom
combing his hair in a suit and the pig
mom was in the it's like the pig family.
The piggy mom was in the kitchen in a
pink dress with an apron cooking eggs.
And I was just thinking to myself, here
is a almost three-year-old and these are
the books they're reading and it says,
"Where's daddy and where's mommy?" So,
we have to imagine that we we do some of
this to the to the kids around us.
Did you burn the book?
I I took a picture of it and raved about
it. I raged about it at work for about 3
hours and we will not be reading the
book again.
Okay, good.
What was your what was your formal
education per se? What was your in terms
of university or anything like that?
What did you study? Yeah. So, um I went
to a college in Texas and I really
wanted to go into marketing and I wanted
to go into advertising and marketing,
which is funny because now somehow I've
ended up there a little bit. Um and I
sat down for the test and completely
failed it. I could not answer any of the
questions. It was so confusing to me. It
was all about,
you know, return on investment and
television views and it was super, not
to be disrespectful, but super boring. I
was like, this is probably not for me.
But anyway, I did not get it accepted.
So I studied um international studies
and that was just this huge mix of
big people problems you know
globalization
anthropology women's studies gender
studies um international relations I
mean it was really fascinating and that
was the best marketing degree I could
have ever gotten because it's the study
of people why do people do what they do
and if you look at the business I'm in
I'm quite literally immersed all day
long into why do people date who they
date? Why do they want what they want?
How do they behave? Why do they get
aggressive? What causes aggression? What
causes online abuse? Where is this
stemming from? And this stuff is really
interesting. So, I'd say my education
really did help me connect those dots.
And as you leave that that degree,
that gap between like the working world
and leaving university, college, what
was that gap and how how what were you
thinking in that moment? Where were you
heading? What were you applying for?
Where were you um seeking the next
chapter of your life?
So I really wanted to be a travel
photographer, like a photojournalist,
and I had no training in that obviously,
but I was just obsessed with the idea.
And it's actually funny at the Bumble
office right now, we have this photo of
this incredible woman that I met in uh
Burma
and she is holding a Bumble lighter and
it's my
never made it to Nat Geo moment.
But that was my dream. I wanted to be a
Nat Geo photographer. And so I went
traveling through Southeast Asia.
Mhm.
And took a lot of photos. And I remember
on my travels thinking, gosh, there's
such a disconnect for someone trying to
explore a new country place. It's only
Trip Adviser. And if you follow Trip
Adviser, you end up eating a hamburger
in Laos at some version of a hard rock,
right? And this is not really the
experience. I thought, why can't I get
to know a local? I want to ride around
on the back of a moped in Laos, and I
want to go understand what do they do
here? Like, where do the 18-year-olds
go? What what what was their life like?
like what what does their day look like?
And I thought, why is there not an app
that does this? Why is there not
something on my phone that can put me in
touch with these people? But then of
course that idea fell by the wayside,
went into, you know, the back of my
brain somewhere and by chance one day
would end up in this wild world of
connecting people on the internet. So,
some of these things were already
brewing and already starting to bubble
up in ways that wouldn't totally expose
themselves yet.
By chance, you ended up in this weird
world of connecting people. What was
that chance?
So, the chance was
that I went to a dinner in Los Angeles
one night with one of my very dear
friends and she had been friendly with
um a couple of these these guys in LA
and we all ended up at dinner because um
I didn't end up driving back to my mom's
house that night. It got too dark and it
was quite a long drive. So, we all had
dinner and I was staying at her house
and one of the guys at dinner was um the
general manager of this incubator and
was telling me all about this incubator
and here I was a 22year-old just barely
22 if that even 2-year-old woman that
needed a job. I needed to make money. I
needed to find my way in the world. And
I had just been kind of adventuring and,
you know, seeing the world and exploring
and taking this very, you know,
risky path of not going straight into a
career and going to travel and going to
see the world and find my passion. And
he said, "Well, maybe you could take a
marketing job." And I said, "Okay, I'll
try. I mean, I'll call you tomorrow."
And he's like, "Okay." Probably thought
I'd never call. And I did. Long story
short, that incubator would be the
incubator where we ended up launching
Tinder. So, it was um by happen stance
that that connection happened. But I
think it was about taking advantage of
an opportunity, right? Seeing an
opportunity. And it didn't feel perfect.
And I think this is a good lesson for
people is the way it was described to me
at that dinner. People think, "Oh, well,
she got so lucky. She, you know, she met
the so- and so of so and so. That's not
what it was like. This that concept of
Tinder was never mentioned. It was never
called Tinder at the time. And it was a
totally different opportunity, but it
was putting my foot in the door of
something that would then turn into
something else and something else. And I
think so many people wait around for the
most perfect headline when it comes to
an opportunity that they can't really
see or read between the lines. And
everybody has that potential. Everybody
can do that. They just have to be
willing to say, "Well, this is a
stepping stone or this is a door that I
could bust open, right?" And I think
that's kind of how I've tried to
approach most things in my career.
It's so so true. It's, you know, that
moment there, there's so many other
outcomes that could have happened from a
dinner.
Um, namely one of them is you just don't
call the person back. I mean, the amount
of times in my life someone's given me
their number and said, "Call me." And I
just haven't called back most of the
time.
99%. It's like all of us do that.
Yeah. Yeah. But there's a philosophy of
like leaning into stuff, especially when
you're young, just like leaning in
regardless of certainty as you've
described. Yeah.
And people have a I I see this in
people, I'm sure you have as well, where
people have a tendency to be like
lean-in people or kind of just lean out
people. Even when the world is changing,
crypto, Bitcoin, blockchain, all these
things, meta, all the typically people
lean in or lean out. And um I think
people that lean in are the ones that
end up creating opportunity, which looks
like luck in hindsight. Yeah, I agree
with you. And being brave enough to just
say even if it doesn't work out, at
least I explored it, right? I think
people
what I've seen and it's something that
I'm guilty of as well in my life is
it's a risk and we have to be willing to
get excited about risk instead of being
afraid of it.
It's the uncertainty though, isn't it?
How good are you at dealing with
uncertainty without how how how
guaranteed do you need the outcome to be
before you take a step
right and for me not very guaranteed
personally because it's like what do you
have to lose right are is are you
creating risk for yourself not really
but I do think that it's scary to pick
up the phone and make that first move
right which would then become Bumble's
entire mantra and tagline and product
and everything but making the first move
and taking that first step can change
your life, but you have to do it. No one
no one can do it for you. And I learned
that the hard way. I I had very little
support along the way in terms of
advocates or community. You know, I had
a handful of people I could call upon,
but candidly, even when I was starting
Bumble, all of my confidants, with the
exception of a couple, were like, "No,
don't do this. Why? Why would you expose
yourself to this? What's the point? that
won't work. There's already dating apps.
They're going to eat you alive
and you can get bogged down in that. You
know, it's really it's easy to drown in
that noise.
In those in those early years of Tinder,
I I remember being told the story maybe
10 years ago in San Francisco when I was
working there with um a guy called
Michael Burch who was the old Bibo
founder. You'll know Bibbo.
Bibo the old social. Oh, no. It didn't
go to the US. It was just I remember
that
it was like Facebook here before before
Facebook.
Okay, cool.
Um and he in his little sort of
incubator that I was in when I was 20,
they were telling me the bump the Tinder
story of how you went to a fraternity.
Mhm.
For people that don't know what a
fraternity is, what's a fraternity?
Uh so I guess in the UK it would be like
college clubs maybe. Do they have like
members clubs or something like that? So
basically sorities and fraternities and
sororities are a house of women and
fraternities are a house of men and
there's different names. So they all
have these Greek names, right? So for
example, the one I joined was Cappa
Capagama.
You could have um Trid Delta. There's
all sorts of them. And essentially a lot
of college students, they do something
called rush where they rush and they go
house to house and they meet all the
women or all the men and then they
basically prep. They put in the name of
the one they would really love to be a
part of and then they see who accepted
them back. It's been criticized up and
down and there's a lot of things that
are not, you know, spectacular about it,
but this is a way a lot of people find
friendship and community. It's it's a
community gathering for their college
campus. So with Tinder, I essentially
went back to my alma mater at SMU. I had
just graduated. So, a lot of my best
friends were still in school. So, I got
access to the campus and I would start
at the sororities and then go to the
fraternity. So, I'd essentially have all
the young women download it and then run
to the fraternity and then they would
download it and then everyone would
start connecting. So, you know, is that
good? Is that bad? How do you want to
chop that up 10 years later? Who knows?
But that's the reality and you know,
can't escape the truth. But so, so you
heard about this way back when? I heard
about this 10 years ago because we were
building communitycentric apps. We're
building something called Blab, which
resembles what Clubhouse is now. Um, and
when we were talking about the marketing
strategy, Tinder kept coming up. And
Sean Puri, who's now who we the company
got acquired by Amazon in the end,
Twitch, um, who own Amazon, who other
way around, Amazon own Twitch. Um,
but yeah, that was the that was the
thesis. It was like should we go to
fraternities and go get you know and to
to try and build that sort of isolated
tight community to try and get product
market fit.
Yeah.
Because network effects really really m
especially in the dating game.
The most important that's why there's
only a handful of dating apps that have
ever survived. I mean at least during my
time doing this which is almost a decade
now. But what's interesting is there's
such a and not to not to say only I
could do this or only somebody else
could do this, but there was a
superpower in the timing of it all
because I had just graduated and I I
knew all of these people. So if some
random startup founder knocks on a
sorority door, the police are coming,
you know, like you can't you can't do
that. So I felt like I had this insider
hook, right? because I was technically
an extension of that by proxy because I
had just been on the college campus and
all of my girlfriends were still there.
So, they were part of these sororities
and all my guy friendss were there. They
were part of these fraternities. So,
I'll never forget
I took the photo of one of my guy
friends back then who was, you know, all
the young women had mega crush on on
him. And then I took the photo of my
best friend, um, Danielle, who
was very well-liked on campus. And I
went into Danny's journalism class
because she was still a student. And I
basically snuck into her journalism
class and used Photoshop. And I took the
Tinder screens and I put the guy's face
on one and her face on the other and I
said, "Find out who likes you on
campus." And then I saved it to a file
because this is the olden days at this
point. And I went to FedEx, which is
like the office supply store across the
street. And I printed a thousand copies.
And I quite literally handed different
students on campus $20 to go distribute
them under dorm doors and to put them on
windshields and to put them, you know,
in their different social clubs and to
essentially distribute these flyers
everywhere. So this entire campus, and
now in hindsight, it's probably not
great. It's littering. There's all sorts
of bad things involved with it, but like
I'm just telling you a story. So, um,
yeah, basically that was that was just
one of the tactics I I used to go and
put it all over campus. And then I had a
few t-shirts printed up that said,
"Don't ask for my number, find me on
Tinder and I had my girlfriends wear the
t-shirts and we went to the bar and so I
gave them, you know, a couple hundred
bucks and they would go around and buy
drinks and then when people would ask
for their number, they'd essentially
say, "You have to download Tinder." So,
it was a lot of these tiny hacking
concepts that made no sense. No one had
ever done these things before. I had no
playbook. It wasn't like, you know, I
was reading some manual to marketing. It
was just what felt
around me. It was it was just bringing
the real life dating experience to life
through through an app. Um, marketing.
There's like so many important messages
of of marketing there. I mean, the first
one that you said was was that you were
the customer. You were so close to the
customer that you understood them. I
mean even you said um about how if
another startup had come and knocked on
the soriety well they wouldn't even know
which door to knock on for a start they
would have knocked on the wrong door got
the wrong people um and they wouldn't
have understood those people their
motivation so like really you being the
customer I think is such a key thing and
then the second thing you said about
like if I had read a marketing book um
and you were kind of just doing it based
on intuition
I've I've seen over and over again from
speaking to really successful CEOs and
founders how important naivity was like
not knowing
so important just following your gut
Yeah, cuz then you that's like first PR
that's creating something from first
principles as opposed to convention.
That's real innovation, right? Like
and it creates solutions that are more
suited for today and for the challenge
that you're solving which no one has
ever had the the challenge of solving,
right,
on that date ever,
right?
Um but naivity, you know, this is this
is sometimes why I think some of the
best founders don't come from like
business school or from marketing
school. The best marketeteers aren't
marketing graduates because naivity is
such a superpower. It's a superpower and
following
your instinct.
And if you understand
what moves people and what motivates
people, then you have this opportunity
to connect with them on a real level. I
mean, we've done things that are
ridiculous. So, I remember we would make
these signs that said um they had the
big X's like no, you know, like you're
not allowed to. and they said no
Facebook, no Instagram, no Snapchat, no
Bumble.
This was like week three of Bumble or
something, some ridiculous early maybe
first year, I can't remember at this
point. And we would post those all over
the universities. So there was this
association where it was like, wait, I
can't do the things I really want to do.
I want to sit in class and Snapchat. I
want to sit in class and Instagram. What
the hell is Bumble? And so we were
essentially seating this psychological
curiosity
curiosity. And then we were actually
sending
young women wearing Bumble shirts into
classes 10 or 15 minutes late
interrupting a class of 300 people and
saying, "Oh, sorry, wrong room." But
everyone's looking at this young woman
and or young man, whoever it was,
wearing a Bumble t-shirt. So, we were
seeding curiosity in this like why is
Bumble everywhere type of thing.
And so, you know, a lot of people think,
oh, well, I can just go start a an app
and I'll just buy some, you know,
Instagram ads and I'll just be
successful. But if people only knew the
fraction of the insane everyday little
hacks that, you know, I did and our team
did to bring this to life. We were the
first people,
certainly the first tech brand to do
humor accounts to pay for the humor
memes. Do you remember the humor memes?
Well, we we ran out of 100 million
followers on hum meme accounts. So,
yeah. So, you know all about this, but
like we were way back years and years
ago. I remember reaching out to I can't
remember what it was, one of these meme
accounts and they're like, "Wait, you
want to pay us to I'm confused. How does
that work?" And we're like, "Okay,
here's the deal. we give you a hundred
bucks or whatever it was, we turn around
a year later, that same account is
charging $100,000 a post. So we there's
also something about luck and timing
being
just right before something,
you know, and if you look at Bumble, we
were also beating the woman drum, the
the this this drum of we need to
advocate for women, beating this drum of
let's put women first. Let's let's
elevate women. Women are not equal in
their relationships. Women are not being
treated respectfully. Women are being
abused on the internet. Women are not
being treated right. We were saying this
in 2014 and then me too would come a
couple years later. So I think we've
we've been lucky as a business to
basically
be right before the wave
and then we've been able to be a part of
that wave versus chasing a wave. And so
many people chase a wave. So many people
chase a wave. They look around them
like, "Well, what's cool? How do I chase
that?" And I feel like we've always had
the good fortune or whatever you want to
call it,
conviction,
inspiration
to go first. And so that's been um maybe
a superpower of ours over the years
because you're making those decisions.
It's so clear to me that you're making
those decisions from original thought
and from like what I think Elon calls
like first principles as in what do we
know is true and create a solution from
that versus how's it done? how's it been
done before and that like and even you
being early to the meme account things
just for context. Um we were probably
like probably probably maybe one of the
first companies in the world I'd say to
to do the meme thing. That's really like
how my business began. We had like 100
million followers on these meme
accounts. That became this big social
media business, this big media company
and it kind of ecom and then it went
public. But it started with meme
accounts.
It's amazing.
It's how I met
I think your original investor. It's how
I met Boo. It's I remember speaking to
having these long conversations with
them in London about we'll make you
trend number one on Twitter, we'll do a
Thunderclap. All the accounts say the
same like but for you to have been one
of the brands that was leaning into
that.
No other brands had no and to your point
yes the meme accounts were there. You
were pioneering all of that but I don't
know if you experienced this brands did
not see their place there and the brands
that did that I had seen had been like
buy my bracelet or buy my fashion. You
know, it was something very
consumercentric, which made sense,
but it wasn't the download my app
and that was such a different
way of promoting something even for the
app world. It was it was so out of
bounds for the app space because the app
space used traditional app space
Yeah.
acquisition strategies.
You're right. It wasn't it wasn't say
and the reason why we managed to get so
many followers was because um people
didn't value those accounts. I remember
buying Beef Fit Motivation which had
about 10 million I'll say followers. Um
Love Food which had about 7 million
followers and Beef at Fit Motivation on
Twitter which had 2 million followers on
Twitter. Um just those just that 20
million followers cost me about 10
grand.
Oh god.
And then the other imagine it's like
really good real estate. It's like
buying a house in some crazy part of
London a thousand years ago.
Yes.
And then all the other accounts were
free because I I offered the people jobs
that ran them. You'll have a proper job.
You get paid loads. I know your mom
doesn't think it's a job. I think it's a
job.
I think I see you. I validate you.
People like, "Oh, you're exploiting."
Well, no, nobody valued it back then.
And then they eventually did value those
social media accounts. And what you're
talking about the whole, you know, it it
was attention. It was it was attention.
It was eyeballs. And from a first
principal perspective, you go, "Well, we
want attention and eyeballs. They are
here. I don't care if it's safe, cool,
or the done thing. That's where we're
going to go." I saw Bumble doing that
and and I've seen all the things that
Bumble have done over the years and it's
always seems to be original in its
nature. It feels that way. Feels like
someone has had an original thought
today about how to solve a problem and
not just they're not just focused on
showing what Bumble is. That they're
communicating how you should feel about
Bumble.
That was always the goal.
Yeah.
And I think there was a lot of people
that thought it was ridiculous early on.
They're like, "Why are you doing a
campaign that has nothing to do with
dating?" You know, we did this huge
campaign where our team put together
this, you know, huge push on be the CEO
your parents always wanted you to marry.
And then in parenthesis, it said, "And
then find someone you actually like or
want to date." And I remember a lot of
people being like, "We're not going to
do this. This there's no ROI here.
What's the ROI? There's no call to
action. And there's no download in the
app store. And what was fascinating was
it built this wild following of our
brand. So people that would never have
downloaded a dating app are now wearing
our hat. Now their mother is carrying
around a Bumble tote because they're
proud of the brand and they are, you
know, it created this
untangible feeling, right? This magic.
And there was a sentiment that was more
powerful than any, you know, ROI
campaign you could do on any other
channel. And so I feel like for me, I
always wanted Bumble to be more than
just an app in your pocket. I wanted it
to be something that gave you a feeling
and a good feeling, not a bad one.
Because so many of these products give
us bad feelings and they make us feel
uninspired and they make us feel lonely.
They make us feel broken. They make us
feel exhausted. And I wanted us to do
something different and our team wanted
us to do something different. We had
such a passionate team. We still have an
incredibly passionate team. But that
early community of our team is really
what made this company so magical,
right? It was that genuine purpose and
buy in and candidly naive. Our team was
young. Our team was separated from a lot
of our infrastructure, meaning like a
lot of the more technical stuff was
isolated from the marketing stuff. And
I've been criticized over the years by
the, you know, the tech publications and
the tech this and the tech that and
whatever. I don't really care. The point
is, it's been like, well, this isn't
this isn't how Silicon Valley does it.
where are the engineers and why are this
and why aren't you sitting with the
engineers and why
and there was a method to the madness.
It was, let's let this team go out and
paint the town yellow and do it with no
interruption, no distraction. And then
let's let our fantastic infrastructure
team really solve big problems through
tech while these two heart and brain can
operate together, right? And it had
never really been done before in this
like traditional Silicon Valley world.
My first startup experience is not like
my second startup experience. You learn
all the lessons. You learn well
hopefully you learn the lessons. I think
I've learned hopefully learned some of
them. Um but your first startup
experience at Tinder. This is when you
know cuz especially when it's moving at
the speed of light
light
you know I mean my startup didn't move
at the speed of light quite like Tinder
did but still absolutely the speed of
light Tinder moved at. And there's that
culture out in San Francisco about, you
know, move fast and break things, which
is I think Facebook popularized. I think
that was their slogan, but everyone kind
of has adopted that mindset of just go
[__] lightning fast and figure it out
later. Fix it while it's fix it while
we're falling kind of thing. Um, talk to
me about that. Talk to me about the the
cost of that, what it taught you and and
really give me a picture of what it was
like in those early rocket ship days.
Well, you know, I think
it was so new to everyone involved. No
one
no one really understood
what the next day held. Um, this was
such a different time also, you know,
Instagram had just had its big sale.
Now, in retrospect, not such a big sale,
but at the time, remarkable, right?
um still remarkable regardless and it
was just such a new environment. Tech
was still relatively niche. Mobile was
very niche, right? It was not super
mainstream. Apps were kind of hitting
the scene, but not like where we are
today. There's an app for this or app
for that. And
we were this tight tribe of people that
really probably had not much to do with
each other outside of this. But it
became this 24/7
unit and we were just fighting every day
to keep it going. I mean our blood,
sweat, and tears went into this
business, right? So when I left
it was completely devastating because I
wasn't just leaving this rocket ship of
a business. That's one thing. But I've
just been essentially, you know,
one day in a 24/7 environment with the
same people for more than 2 years to the
next day never seeing any of them ever
again.
and in the middle of that ending up on
the front page of all sorts of magazines
and newspapers because of the
narrative of the ending, right? And it
was it was extremely traumatic,
extremely. I was I think I was stuck in
fight orflight mode for years. um
because you know that was all I knew for
years and it had been such a 0 to 100
experience as you know when you're in
these startups it's they're almost their
own I'm definitely not accusing the
company of being this but they become
their own little cult
and it's really hard to
go from that one day to not that the
next day and then to go end up launching
ing a woman version to some degree
within 6 months of leaving. So, if you
can just try to imagine what every day
looked like to both mourn and grieve my
exit from Tinder and deal with all the
logistical pieces of it and the media
pieces of it which were coming at me, I
had reporters trying to go through my
window at my little apartment in Beverly
Hills from some rag magazine. I mean,
this is just crazy for me. I was a
nobody. I mean, I'm still technically a
nobody, but it's not like I was on some
reality show and I became popular
overnight. Like, this was traumatizing
to me. And,
you know, it's funny like the land of
everyone trying to be famous. I was
probably maybe one of the only people
not at that point, right? So it was very
crazy to just all of a sudden in a very
scandalous way by the way I was
described in the media.
I was literally painted as this like
scandalous gone girl of the tech world.
And it was soul crushing cuz it's not
who I was. It's not who I am. So I was
watching this narrative unfold about me
and I was in these Twitter discussions
with all the most important people in
the tech world and it was just crazy. It
was just watching this narrative unfold
about this person that wasn't me. And
then I'm turning around in the same
breath,
meeting up with Andre, and then I'm, you
know, even before that trying to start
Marci, this complimentsoriented, kinder
social network, which then I meet up
with Andre and one thing leads to
another. And now Bumble is my new path.
And now we're starting Bumble and this
is all going on. It was a whirlwind.
A whirlwind.
What is What is the the context you're
able to share about why they were
writing those headlines about you and
why you are ostracized from your as
you've described it something that felt
a little bit like a cult, which is
actually a good description of how all
my companies have pretty much started.
It feels like a 24/7.
Come on, we're going to take over the
world. It's that kind of
it's I mean it's crazy. I mean like the
way people speak about what you're going
to do. I mean there's such big ideas and
they're such like passionate ideas and
then you go from
real world which is so mundane right
it's like quite boring out there in the
real world
to this like super like high energy you
know the there's you know going to be a
disaster if we don't do this in the next
5 minutes this is crashing that's
crashing this metric's up this metric's
off one day you're booming the next day
you're cr I mean the adrenaline you know
what I'm talking about the ups and the
downs and
the hard work that goes into it and the
skipping meals and the no sleep and
everything feels potentially fatal as
well at that point, doesn't it?
Fatal. And the other thing that is
interesting is you
can't connect with everybody else the
way you used to because they're they
can't quote unquote get it. They don't
get it, you know? So, it's like trying
to like have a Sunday afternoon meal
with your family or your friends during
that. you're like, I can't like we don't
even speak the same language anymore.
So,
I'll just avoid them. That's a waste of
time.
You have no idea what's going on. So,
which in hindsight, I think I lived in
that mindset for years between Tinder
and Bumble. I mean, kind of coming up
for air now and having time to breathe
and think like that's a
I'm sure a lot of people that have built
companies feel this way though. I'm sure
you feel this way where you're like,
"Wo, I isolated myself from a lot of
important relationships
that there's regret to that at some
point." Do you ever feel that way?
100%. I was incredibly lonely. I didn't
speak to my family. Didn't really see
them for many, many years. And I thought
that I thought that something mattered
much more. And you eventually, even if I
used to think I was immune, but
eventually your body will remind you
that you are a human too and you have
needs and your needs are being unmet.
The signal will come in many ways. I
hear this signal sometimes come for
people. They'll have panic attacks.
They'll they'll feel growing sense of
loneliness. Their health will give out.
I've had certain examples where the body
has just shut down.
Yeah.
And it's I've gone through that.
As you know, Intel are now one of the
sponsors of this podcast and I'm here to
tell you about one of the latest Intel
Evo designs. I've been recently using
this laptop and honestly, I've been
blown away by how userfriendly it is to
use. Intel has spent thousands of hours
studying the way people use their
laptops and then collaborating with
leading PC makers to co-engineer,
optimize, and test these laptops to
create the Intel Evo platform, which
delivers the ultimate mobile experience.
Laptop designers only receive the Intel
Evo badge after they've been rigorously
tested to pass Intel's own strict
requirements and deliver an ideal
combination of features such as
long-lasting fast charging battery,
Wi-Fi connectivity standards, and a
super slim design. The result is a
premium laptop that delivers an ideal
combination of features. In the coming
weeks, I'm going to break down exactly
what features you get when you buy an
Intel Evo certified laptop and how
they've made my life on the go 10 times
easier. To find out more about the Intel
Evo platform, go to intel.co.uk/eo
and let me know how you get on. This
episode is brought to you by
Mercedes-Benz, who recently got in touch
to support the DEO. Thank you. I'm a
huge fan of their cars. In fact, I have
one of my own, which is like an office
on wheels, and they have an exciting
wide range of cars that I'd love to tell
you about. The Mercedes EQ is the luxury
electric range of Mercedes-Benz, and it
is available across many models from the
SUVs to the saloons, meaning they're
ideal for all business needs. The
innovative next generation technology
found in all Mercedes EQ cars is really
paving the way for the electric car
industry. To make your electric car
switch so much easier, Mercedes-Benz has
a service called Mercedes MI Charge.
It's a subscription which provides you
with access to a wide network of
charging stations across the entirety of
the UK. The app shows you the precise
location and current availability and
price at the selected charging station
of your choice. And this enables
businesses to effectively plan their
route ahead of their journey. You can
search Mercedes-Benz Fleet today to
discover how the Mercedes EQ car range
can help your business get ahead. And if
you already drive a Mercedes EQ, let me
know how you find it. I read that your
departure from Tinder was um ominous to
say the least. In fact, that's actually
the word that's written in my notes in
2014. And in the early days of the
foundation, the founding of Tinder,
you'd had a relationship with somebody.
That relationship had ended. You were
then treated in a pretty horrendous way
from everything that I read online. um
threatened multiple times, people saying
that they would they would fire you for
things that they didn't have a
justification to fire you for. Um sort
of patronizing, condescending behavior
to the fact that you were um a young
female co-founder and and how they would
take that co-founder title from you. Um
it's actually really hard for me to to
read actually just from it kind of makes
me a bit feel a sense of injustice in my
core. um you were called annoying and
dramatic at certain times when you
raised certain concerns and as a result
um you you know you were you ended up
leaving the company, you were fired. I
read you fired from the company uh which
is even worse when you raise certain
concerns. You then filed a lawsuit um
which went on um and there was certain
actions taken and there was a reported
settlement reached at one point. But
overall your treatment while you were at
Tinder specifically from men read to me
like it was allegedly horrific and
unfair and sexist. Um, and then upon
leaving Tinder, Tinder, there's this
huge wave of press who are
mischaracterizing you, what happened,
and you fall into this situation where
you've been in this cult. We'll call it
a cult cuz that's how it often feels to
both of us for so long. You come out of
that and you're greeted with this wall
of like mischaracterization, attacks,
um, from all sides and you're kind of
out on your own. That's the moment where
you're ostracized from the tribe um and
you're dealing with this wave of
negativity.
Yeah. So, you know, I'm legally really
not meant to comment on the Tinder
Times, but
what I will say is
I was literally
broken
during that chapter where I was waking
up to headlines about myself. Like you
said, I was being described in all sorts
of ways and people were calling my, you
know, my uncle and my ex-boyfriend. I
mean, it was this digging weird
investigation into my life and all I
wanted was to just do my job, right? And
so it was a very dark, toxic moment. And
I felt
so alone. Um, and I felt so unsupported
because this was before me, too. This is
before Times Up. Any woman that said
anything out of line was called names.
And this was still during a chapter,
even in modern land, that was
not really pro- women. And so no matter
what I said or did, I wasn't going to be
able to get through. There was judgment.
I had friends from college didn't want
to talk to me anymore. They were like,
"Oh, this this feels this feels icky. I
don't this isn't that cool." You know,
like all of I was ostracized. I was just
I had a scarlet letter. And that was
such a devastating feeling because let's
just remember I was just a young
professional. I was 24 years old and
I've been working my tail off for two
plus years. I had obviously teamwork
makes the dream work. I still
fundamentally believe that. But I had
played my role and an important one,
right, to get the company to where it
was. So to be called all of these names
and to be basically just written off by
Twitter and the random media and the
random everyone
and I have big respect for media and I'm
not criticizing them. I'm just saying
this was the narrative at the time. So
it was really hard. I was super
depressed. I was paranoid.
I was actually don't think I left the
house for like a three weeks at one
point. I'll never forget actually. I
don't even know if I've told the story.
Maybe I have, but when I was launching
Bumble again, because you have to
remember Bumble launched within 6 months
of my departure. So, not the departure
itself, but 6 months from kind of
when the legal pieces were put to bed.
That was August. I want to say August
3rd. December 1st, Bumble is live in the
app store. You know how much work goes
into launching something. It's a 24-hour
job. I had another 24-hour job of
grieving and being in fight orflight
defense mode of whatever Twitter was
coming after me with. And it was really
hard. So, I think there was a chapter
where I didn't leave the house for
several weeks. And when I was launching
Bumble, um I think it was Business
Insider, I can't remember who, they were
doing a piece on Bumble and they needed
a picture of me and I was like, "Well,
I'm not taking any pictures. There's no
way I'm in sweatpants and Uggs. I'm not
leaving this house." So, I went outside
in my front yard in sweatpants and Uggs
with a sweater on and did like a half
fake smile and had someone take a
picture on some camera I had at home
that I had, you know, used way back when
when I wanted to be a travel journalist
and use that. And I just had to peel
myself back up. I just had to peel
myself off the ground. And I was lucky
to have a couple really strong people in
my life that had my back, like my now
husband, like Andre. Um, there were a
couple people that were like, "I don't
care what people say about you. I don't
care. We believe in you. We know that
you're capable. We know you're smart. We
know that you can do this again. So, you
need to go chase your dreams. You're not
done." And you know, I very soon after
leaving Tinder in this moment of despair
and drinking too much, not like
socially, like at home, like very
depressed, trying to numb myself in any
way I could. Um, I had this moment where
I was like, I have to solve this. Part
of my psyche is find a problem and solve
it. It could be anything, micro,
anything. It's it's just part of the way
my brain works. And the being attacked
on the internet felt like such a big
problem to me. And I felt like this was
something so many people were going
through. So many young girls in
particular were going through being
bullied. And I thought to myself, I'm an
adult. Like I can get in a car and I can
drive to a grocery store and I can do
all these things. These young women are
trapped at home after school, often in
bad circumstances at home and they're
being abused by people they actually
know. How horrible would that be? I'm
getting attacked by strangers. They're
getting attacked by friends at school
and strangers not really in the sense of
stranger to us, like proxy strangers,
right? Friends of friends. And I was
like, I have to fix this. I have to fix
this. It's my duty on earth to fix this.
So, I started quite literally with a
pencil and a pen. I still have the early
drawings. Sketching out a new social
network. It was called Marci. And the
only currency and the only way to
communicate was compliments. So instead
of saying, you know, you're stupid or
you don't look good or you're this or
body shaming or that or even, hey,
you're so skinny, something that is
negative, even though it feels positive,
I wanted it just to be compliments. And
so it was essentially supposed to be the
girl's dressing room, the girl's
bathroom. When when young women go out
to nightclubs, there's this saying that
young women are so nice to each other in
the bathroom at a nightclub. And I
wanted to bring that to life. So I
started sketching that out to basically
rebuild myself. And long story short, um
eventually Bumble would become what it
was. You know, I met Andre and then I
mean I had known him but reconnected
with Andre.
One thing led to the next and Bumble was
born. So I think what people don't
realize they've I've had a lot of people
that maybe I went to college with.
They're like, "Oh my god, you've had
such a good career. You're so lucky.
You're so successful." I'm like, "It's
been pretty dark. It's been pretty
heavy."
Dark.
Is there a because I reflect on my
darkest times and I can typic typically
remember a worse day
a day when
you know I just couldn't see the light
at the end of the tunnel. What was your
darkest day throughout that period?
I have se several that are pretty
visceral and memorable,
but one that I think maybe is something
people can actually tangibly like put
themselves into this moment. Um, I mean
you can imagine there's lots of tough
moments along the way, but one was we
had worked so hard to build Bumble in
stealth mode starting from about
August
through call it November. So head down
four or five months of just like 24
hours a day back into the, you know, the
grind.
And it was really important to me not to
attach my name to it. I was so scared of
putting my name on it. I didn't want to
muddy it. I was like, you know, I'm in
the media as this like scandalous person
right now and I don't I don't want to be
known for I don't want I don't want this
to be about me. I want this to be about
what the product is and what the mission
is. I want women to go first in their
relationships. I want women to be
empowered. And I remember we had worked
so hard to keep my name out of it. I had
like a a pseudo email that I was using
to reach out to certain people that I
thought could, you know, maybe leak that
this was happening. And we were going to
launch in mid December. They had gone on
this investigative uh adventure of sorts
of following all my early employees and
ambassadors and they were going through
all the images and piecing together this
story about this new product that was
launching. And the headline said
something along the lines, maybe not
verbatim, but it was really hurtful. It
was like basically I'm summarizing how I
internalized it. Surprise, surprise.
Like the scorned woman from Tinder
launches her own dating app, but women
go first. And oh, I hear she really
likes bees. She's called it Bumble.
Like, it was so hurtful. And I just
sobbed. And I sobbed because there had
been so much work that went into coming
back, rising from the ashes, and pulling
myself back up. And to keep it in this
kind of self position away from me and
not make it about that, not make it
about that. You know, I women have a and
everyone, every gender, we all have an
opportunity and a I believe a human
right to start over. We all have the
right to start over. None of us should
be held hostage to a certain chapter in
our lives or a certain thing in our
lives. Like we should all be able to get
back up, right? If we're still
breathing, you have that right. And that
felt like my right to starting over on
my own terms was taken from me and it
was really violating. So, in my typical
fashion, I cried about it for a while
and then I pivoted. So, I called my
early team. I said, "We have a we have a
problem. whoever it was has
basically um leaked this information,
which is their job. I, you know, I don't
hold them against. It's not their fault,
but they basically have have told
everybody that we're doing this app and
that it's coming out and that I'm behind
it, but they're kind of missing the
point of what the product really is. Um,
I think they're misunderstanding why
we're starting this. I think for them it
read more of like in a a revenge novel,
right? Which was not the case. It was
about Marci then evolving into a
positive dating space. So I said, "Okay,
um, you're all jumping out of an
airplane tomorrow." And they're like,
"What do you mean I'm jumping out of an
airplane tomorrow?" And I said, "You
have to explain that it's just not that
scary to talk first on an app as a
woman. Like if if women can jump out of
an airplane, they can certainly send the
first message." And so we just pivoted
and we went and filmed this little
launch video of literally my first three
employees jumping out of an airplane.
And the whole tagline was um it was
something along the lines of like if we
can jump out of an airplane you can send
the first text and that was kind of how
we reframed the discussion and took you
know took control of the narrative.
That point about your right to kind of
reinvent yourself or not be defined by a
previous chapter I think is so
important. It's also why, you know, I've
got to be honest, like I don't like I
don't love talking about it like the
Tinder stuff because it it's it's a it's
a step in your journey. It's an
important contextual step.
Yeah, of course.
You know, it's it's inspired you in in
many ways in terms of your mission and
your vision and your and all of those
things. But, um I'm glad we could we
could fill that context. I when I asked
the um the question about your your
hardest your hardest moment in the
darkest times, I was reflecting on some
of the quotes I'd read about when you
were in that moment feeling like maybe
life wasn't worth living anymore.
Yeah.
And that kind of thing. And it's hard
it's hard to um I think for a lot of
people I hope it's hard for them to
understand that mindset like getting to
that place. I hope it's hard for them to
understand. I hope they've never had to
experience it. But for someone that has
what what is that like? Are those are
those words real? That that that that
prospect of like maybe maybe life would
be better without me in it.
I most certainly felt that way at times
for sure. Leaving when I was going
through that chapter, I most certainly
had moments where I thought, well, this
is it. I mean, what what now? I
there's a whole persona that's been
created about me out there in the world.
How am I ever going to escape this? I'm
going to be suffocated by
a definition a group of strangers have
assigned to me and my tribe is gone.
I'm gone. I everything I can identify
with this,
you know, this startup world can feel
like a cult at times, right? And so that
all felt gone. And I told you earlier,
you disassociate from a a lot of the
life you once had, friends, family, you
lose connection with them when you're
trying to build something, right? And so
when you leave that thing you're
building, it's not like, okay, well, let
me just go home to grandma's house, that
doesn't feel like an option. You don't
feel like you can relate to anyone
anymore. And I just did not understand
what the point was anymore. But it was
right in that moment literally I want to
say like that was the same same piece of
the same storm
of feeling such a deep pain
in such a deep problem which the problem
to me was toxic internet and how toxic
it could be and how detrimental it could
be for your mental health that a
solution came and so I really channeled
that dark dark dark loathing and pain
and instead of drowning in it, I kind of
started swimming as fast as I could
for for air. And my air was go rebuild
yourself, right? And so
I think that that that's ultimately the
way I was able to reframe that. And
I think the internet can make you feel
very alone and very isolated and very
lonely and we start believing it as our
reality. Right? What the internet says
is not really what's in the park across
the street.
And I think that's important for people
to hear is that whatever you're feeling
based on what people are saying on the
internet or whatever you've read, turn
off the phone for a little bit and go
outside, right? Because I didn't do that
in that moment. And I think we have to
realize that it's not always our
reality.
Very powerful. This leads to to Bumble,
which is um which was a game changer in
its industry. It was the first of its
kind. It was the first of its kind in
many respects, including just the the
look and feel and messaging. That's
really, you know, as a marketeer, that's
the thing I I always respected. I mean,
I really respected the um the point of
women getting to go first because I'd
never seen that before. I've never seen
that done in the way that it's done on
Bumble. But from a marketing marketeers
mindset, I really respected how bold,
how clear, how much Bumble were um
willing to position themselves as the
antithesis, the the the opposite of
everything else that existed. It was
really willing to take to bring a new
concept and a new idea to the market.
Um, when you look back at the earliest
days of Bumble, like the first year, two
years of Bumble, now with the hindsight
of knowing how things all how the dots
connected, why did you win?
I'm not sure. Did we win? I still feel
like
Listen, how many customers did you have
over the years? Like,
we have a lot.
A lot.
We have a lot.
I know. And that's an interesting point
that it doesn't feel like you've won.
Oh, no. I Okay, so this is crazy. I in
my head still feel like we're
tiny. Genuinely, I'm not even just
saying that to you. Like the concept of
going public and all of these things in
my mind. I go to the office every day
and I'm like, "Okay, how are we going to
get off the ground?" Like literally, I
don't think you understand. I'm
genuinely
locked in a place of we have so much
more to do and we have so much more
growth to be had that I feel like it's a
reset every day. So I will say
how is it possible to be happy when
you're
you're never there.
But it's not that I'm never there in a
personal sense. It's not like I'm like
oh I don't feel like
validate. It's it's not that anymore.
It's that
there are still billions of people
around the world that have never heard
about Bumble. And there are still
millions and millions and millions of
women around the world right now in bad
relationships. toxic relationships where
they don't understand that they should,
can, and eventually will
go first in their life.
They can leave a bad relationship. They
can go into a good relationship. There
are women as we speak, you know, we're
all watching this unfold. It's
absolutely heartbreaking
just advocating to be able to have
simple freedoms,
just wanting to have the freedom to
exist in their society as an equal. So
when I go to the office every day and
saying, "Okay, how are we going to
launch?" We're 132 years away from
gender parody,
maybe 136. Okay? Either way, it's not
great. And so that's where I feel like I
don't have enough time in this lifetime
to achieve what I want to achieve.
Forget the personal accolades and I
don't care about that stuff. I am I am
personally on a personal level now.
Thank God. It's required a lot of, you
know, self-care, therapy, wonderful
husband, beautiful to healthy children.
Thank you, God. I am happy now, but I'm
not happy about where women are
globally. And that I feel unfulfilled
because until we really look around us
and say, women are not in these toxic,
terrible relationships and living in an
unequal playing field. I have got to go
to work. I got to like get back to the
office. And that's how I feel.
Pursuing that goal comes somewhat at the
expense of yourself in some in some
degree, right? Whether that's your, you
know, cuz life could be easier if you
just decided not to pursue that goal. It
could be easier.
Yeah. I could probably be drinking pin
coladas on the beach somewhere, right?
So, and I always I always think about
this, you know, the the pursuit of this
of a goal versus like, you know,
self-preservation and and taking care of
yourself. And you seem like someone that
is somewhat willing to sacrifice
themsself to a degree, sacrifice
something to fulfill a goal that might
even hurt yourself in your own life in a
sense of like psychological harm or
balance or you know, it's definitely
sleep.
Yeah. No, this is this is probably the
biggest uh this is the this is the
balancing act we all talk about, right?
But
you can't do it all every single day.
Why not go to the beach, you know? Why
not go and have a pinina colada? And
you want to go have a pan on the beach?
If we ask you the same, okay?
There's got to be like a a group therapy
for like why why why won't we go have a
peanut colada on the beach? Um,
I don't know. I just I feel very
passionate about what I'm doing. And
when I stop feeling passionate, I'll go
have a pinina colada and then I'll go do
something different. But this is
it feels like my life's work. And I I
try to be a good mom and I try to be a
good wife and I try to be a good to
myself and take those times. And I think
anyone that sits around and tells you
like, "Oh, it's all about balance." I
mean, maybe they're right. Maybe they've
got some secret that I don't know about,
but my god, I don't I don't I don't
think any day is fully balanced, right?
I don't think any of us go to sleep
every night feeling like, "Wow, I just
got a 10 out of 10 on every single
category today." I think you just do
your best. And for me, I get joy out of
pushing this brand forward. I get joy
out of the women that come up to me and
tell me that they were in an abusive
marriage for 20 years and read a story
about Bumble and left their spouse and
got on Bumble and are happy in healthy
relationships. Like that's what this is
all about for me.
It looked like that question made you a
bit emotional.
Yeah, I am emotional about it because
I'm kind of doing this for my
17-year-old self also, right? I don't
want another generation of
me at 17. I don't want another
generation of that. I don't want another
generation of young women that felt
unworthy and felt
lesser than and felt like they needed a
man to tell them what to do. And I just
don't I don't want to see that as this
next wave of 17-year-olds. So,
I also don't want to see all these women
suffering from domestic and emotional
abuse across the world. So, you know,
there's lots of ways and a lot of people
around the world that are doing a lot to
fix this, but I don't have those skill
sets. I don't have, you know, maybe I
don't know how to do what they know how
to do, and I know how to do this. So, I
feel like I better just lean in while I
can. And plus, I I'm definitely old for
the Gen Z people out there, but I'm 33,
so I feel like, you know, I might have a
little bit more in me somewhere.
If you're old, I'm old. So, I thought
we're I just turned 30.
So,
wait, you're three years younger than
me? That's like
Yeah, I just turned 30.
It's like five decades younger than me.
No, it's not. We're in the same We're in
the same school.
Well, happy birthday whenever it was.
Yeah, it was about a couple of weeks
ago.
Well, happy birthday.
You want to tissue?
No, I'm okay.
You sure?
Yeah.
That for me that answer really answers a
lot of questions because it shows where
the driver is coming from and that's the
reason why the pin coladas seem like a
lower priority than the mission. Going
back to the question which I kind of
took us off on a tangent away from um
about why you think Bumble won
um or was successful was able to break
through into that very small category of
dating apps or dating sites where
there's really only like a handful of
real players.
Why? Why? Because I know you know I have
to say something. I know that the other
dating apps because I was sometimes in
the room tried to launch dating apps of
themselves. So they they took their
existing network, they tried to launch a
new dating app into it and it didn't
work.
I've seen it happen over and over again.
I know Michelle
Yeah.
from Peanut. She's one of the people I
used to work with when we were doing the
marketing at Purdue.
Oh, really?
Yeah. She's I I think what she's done is
awesome.
Yeah. I love Peanut. It's It's great.
But but I but I know it's not
easy and I know it's not chance and I
know it's not luck because I've seen I
can't tell you at Social Chain how many
times we had dating apps come to us and
say, "Can you do our marketing?" maybe
200 times.
There's 5,000 dating apps in the app
store.
It's impossible. It's impossible. It's
impossible to start a new one because of
the network effects and all of those
things.
It's impossible.
Impossible.
So why you how you? How
every other dating product until Bumble
had been solving for the wrong side of
the coin. They've been thinking about
men. That's all. They woke up in the
morning and thought about how to make a
dating app good for guys and they had it
backwards.
Why are you solving for men when this is
all about what women need and what women
want? No one was asking women, you think
women want to get abused on the
internet? Think again. Like, find me a
woman that enjoys being harassed on a
dating app. Not one.
But for some reason, that problem didn't
strike anyone as a problem.
So,
it's not that hard to say, "Wait a
second. This is a double-sided
marketplace.
This product can't survive without
women. Yet, we're exploiting and
degrading women on a lot of these
products, not naming any names."
What? And so, for me,
it was all about taking that original
concept of Mercy, a kind space for
women, a safe space for women.
And to Andre's push, got to give him got
to give him some credit for being so
interested in dating, right? I was so
turned off of dating. I wanted nothing
to do with dating. When Andre was like,
"Oh, let's do a dating, you know, come
be my CMO." So, first of all, I'm not
for hire. I'm starting my own company. I
must be founder and CEO of whatever I do
next. I cannot work for someone. I just
I have to be my own boss. And um you
know I got to give him a lot of credit
because he trusted that and he said okay
do whatever you want to do but it just
my one stipulation is it has to be in
dating cuz I know dating and I want to
get behind a dating product. So
when I was sitting there you know we
were we had kind of agreed to okay we're
going to do this dating app. What's it
going to be? What about Mercy? I want it
to be Mercy. I want it to be about women
and I want to be women only. I want
safety and kindness and accountability.
There's no internet spaces for women.
Nothing's been built for women. We have
to do this for women. And then it kind
of just all clicked. And I sat there and
within literally minutes, it all just
wrote itself. I said, "Wait a second.
I know the problem.
Women don't go first. Men do. Men
message as many women as they can. Women
are getting inundated. they never
respond. The lack of response is causing
a rejection and the rejection is
triggering an aggression. And that
aggression is now translating into
harassment. And this is why women are
being abused on the dating apps because
if only they would go first. The man
wouldn't feel rejected. They'd feel
empowered. It would totally calibrate
this whole experience. And I said,
"Okay, great. I know what we're going to
do. Women have to talk first on this
product, and they only have 24 hours to
do it. I knew nobody else could
conceptualize the way I would explain
it. So I was like, "Thank Cinderella,
the pumpkin and the carriage." And men
can send one extend on time a day to
capture their attention if they want to.
Now we have to also call out something.
This was back in 2014 in a very
heterosexual oriented dating app
experience.
The landscape has evolved. We have to be
inclusive to all. And so of course we
are and of course we are currently as we
speak spending countless time and
putting all of our heart and soul into
how to make the experience better for
non-binary, for the trans community, for
anybody that identifies as a woman as
well, right? And so that's a big portion
of the future. But that was really how I
would say we became successful because
of two things. women, making sure that
we were solving for women's real
problems on the internet,
marketing to women. So, when I went back
to those sororities and fraternities,
instead of going in with, you know,
whatever we had gone in at Tinder, I
went in with things for women. I went in
with items women wanted, cute yellow
cookies. Like, I understood that we are
going to build a cute brand, not a sexy
brand. And that's what set us apart. I
wanted it to feel warm and cozy and
inviting and soft and feminine and safe
and that's the beginning
and still the current through line of
Bumble.
What do you like as a leader? Because
leadership has evolved, you know, over
the last 10 20 years from like the Steve
Jobs days where you've got this kind of
tyrant that from what I've heard so so
hard to deal with that they put him in
his own building and only people could
could work in that building if they were
really resilient. I heard all these
stories. I spoke to was didn't tell me
that was um was is the closest I've ever
got to Steve to Steve Jobs. leadership
and that the concept of what a leader
looks like and how they behave and how
they treat people. In a post internet
world where we have the ability to speak
up because we can tweet and glass door
and all of these things leadership
leadership has changed uh our
perceptions of it how they behave in a
post-pandemic world leaders are much
more vulnerable because I think a lot of
them had to be really vulnerable during
the pandemic to to guide their teams
through what what if I asked your teams
if I said
you know what what's like as a leader
what would they say to me Um,
I feel like I try I try and so, you
know, I'm sure I could be told
otherwise.
I try to
be empathetic and I try to think about
everyone around me, probably to my
detriment, honestly. Um, I think it's
probably done me more harm than good
over the years because I'm trying to
solve for every single person in the
room that maybe it doesn't solve
anything sometimes. Um, but I really I
try to just be the brand we are
externally internally. Um, it's hard,
you know, there's so many conflicting
needs as a business. You have a
marketing and brand team that want to do
one thing. You have a technical team
that needs to do another. you have IPO
um teams that have to do another and so
you end up being this conductor of a
very um
loud orchestra and I try to create
harmony with people but um I don't know
I I guess I wouldn't say I follow any I
don't read leadership books I don't like
take leadership courses maybe that's
something I should do I don't know but I
just lead with my gut I I just do what
feels right I try to do the right thing.
I try to listen and hear what people are
saying and I try to listen to other
people too. So if one person calls me
and says
X Y or Z, I try to call the other person
and say, "What's your version of this?"
before I jump to a conclusion. Um I
really try to have compassion for where
everybody's coming from, but it's tough.
And then I also have to put my head down
and say, "Okay, no, sometimes this is
just how it's going to go, right?"
Because I feel like I can see certain
things that maybe
aren't present to everyone in the dating
space because I've been in this thing
for a decade now and I feel like I
understand the nuances of it very well.
So, I don't know. I don't know what they
would say. You talked about creating
harmony amongst the orchestra, which I
feel like is the perfect example of the
role of a CEO, but a role of the CEO of
a public company becomes even more
difficult because then you have even
more conflicting
um expectations when you're that person
that's trying to create a harmony in all
of this orchestra.
Keep everybody happy,
meet all the needs. How do you create
harmony within yourself?
So, I personally
have
beliefs that, you know, there's
something bigger than what we're dealing
with every day, right? Like, I try to
zoom out, zoom out into something that
we can't even see, right? There's
obviously influences of the universe
that none of us know about. You and I
cannot sit here and say that we know
every corner of why we exist and what
what's going to happen tomorrow. And so,
I try to just trust the process. I try
to laugh. Andre was always really good
at that. He would just laugh in really
stressful situations and I learned that
from him. It was just like have a laugh,
you'll be okay. And also to realize that
we are just a blip on the radar. Like
this is going to be like
if we're lucky like Bumble will be like
a half page in a book one day, hundreds
of years from now. Like it's just not
that big of a deal the daily dramas and
the nuances of everything. And so I try
to just zoom out like is this really
going to still matter? This one moment
in interpersonal dynamics or this one
moment in um a a failed launch or
whatever it might be. Is this really
going to matter in 5 years? Is this
going to matter in 5 months? And I
really try to do that exercise of like
how big of a deal is this before
I allow it to disrupt my harmony. Does
that make sense?
I don't know if that made any sense.
It does make sense. It does make sense.
Um, I was reading things about your your
sort of sleep work routine and you
sounded a lot like me. I'm the type of
person that has an a fairly unhealthy
relationship with my phone throughout
through throughout the early hours of
the morning especially um especially
when I was running the company,
especially when I was at social chain
still. Um, I'd wake up in the middle of
the night. I was pro I was worried too
too often when we couldn't make payroll
and I knew it was payday in a week. I'd
be riddled with little sort of slithers
of anxiety. When we spoke to um I think
it's Robbie
Oh yeah, he's great.
Robbie in your team. Robbie said she
makes no pretense of being always strong
and is openly vulnerable with the team
where you might walk into the office one
day and let them know that you've been
struggling with something. might you
might be anxious or struggling with
anxiety that day and encourage your
other team members if they're feeling
the same way to take the time that they
need.
Well, that's really nice of him. But
yeah, I mean vulnerability is
it has to be authentic. I've watched so
many people the last few years ride this
vulnerability trend and I'm like that's
not real vulnerable. Like vulnerability
can't be a scapegoat or an exit or a
crutch for me.
I don't know. I just I just tell the
truth. If I'm having postpartum
depression back when after my first
baby, I would just say that to my all
hands because that was the truth. And
why would I be anything other than
truthful? If I want to lead a company
that tells the truth and I want to run a
business that instills behaviors that
are truthful and and healthy and and
better, like why would I want to operate
in any way that's disingenuous to that?
So I just get up and just try to tell
the truth. Um
convention would say, well that's not
you leaders are strong and then that
they don't they don't have any problems
and they they're always tough and they
you know they you know so what if and
this is honestly what I used to worry
about. I used to think well if I if I'm
truly honest that that things affect me
too my team are going to think I'm weak
and then I can't lead them. And that's
the kind of narrative that ran out in my
head.
Yeah. But, and I get that, but the
reality is everyone's everyone's feeling
something and I'm in a connection
business. How can I run a connection
company if I can't connect? And the only
way you can connect is through
vulnerability. It's the only way to
connect with anyone. I'm being very
vulnerable with you right now because
we're sitting here connecting. So, I
might as well, you know, I could sit
here and be like, well, some business
book I read, you know, there's this
theory of like, you know, this many
hours a day do this and like that's just
not my vibe. If
we sit here in 10 years time and we say
that that was a really successful 10
years for Bumble, what would have
happened in those 10 years?
We would have built worldclass features
that were industry changing for safety
and trust on the internet. we would have
become the safest platform for women not
only to date but to find any trusted
contact that they need. A mentor, a
mentee, uh a babysitter, um a friend, uh
somebody that has the same illness as
them, as rare as it might be, somebody
who is struggling with any type of
mental health crisis, the platform to
find anyone on a trusted safe
wavelength. And we would have also gone
and created a suite of laws to actually
build real legislature around the gaps
that exist for physical and digital
accountability as it pertains to women's
well-being. Um, and we would have scaled
globally to every corner of the earth
where women need us the most. And we
would be a trusted product for them to
find their innate strength to quite
literally make the first move out of
something bad and into something good.
And we would have built a brand that
showed everybody that you can have
mission and profit live under the same
roof and you can be a kinder connected
company um irrespective of how everybody
else has done it before. So that's what
I would hope for.
Thank you.
Understanding your understanding you and
understanding what's driving you. I
would certainly bet on that becoming a
reality. Um, and I think that's the most
that's really, you know, of all the the
the business success, the marketing
brilliance and all of the things that
you've done and the resilience and the
getting back up and all of those things
that in and of themselves, you kind of
we describe them in a couple of minutes,
but I but any human that's struggled and
been rejected and had, you know, been
mischaracterized knows that those aren't
small things. So for many people, even
one of those things is entirely fatal.
But there's clearly this unbelievable
resilience in you because he said well
where does that you know I think I think
you said it where I think you said it on
a podcast one time where you said it
doesn't matter if you lose your
confidence you still have your drive and
I really pondered that when you said
that I thought is that true cuz I was
thinking lose your confidence you still
well you do you still have the drive
whether you have the the the the belief
that comes from confidence that you can
have it but you still have that drive
and that's exactly what I've I've
learned from you today which is that
unshakable
bigger than myself am a mission bigger
than me drive which is driving you and
your company and that's why I think
you're an unbelievable inspiration but
Bumble is an unbelievable bet on the
future a future which I think is
inevitable and a future that is
necessary so thank you for your time
today it's a huge honestly when I say
it's a huge honor I mean it's a huge
honor
I feel the same way about you thank you
for having me um today
we have a closing tradition on the
podcast where the last guest asks a
question for the next guest they don't
know who they're leaving it for so they
just leave it in the diary I open it and
I get to read it now Um the question
they left for you not knowing it was you
was what is the last belief you would
relinquish?
It's an interesting question
like what would I let go of? What belief
do I have? Like what is there a belief I
have that I would let go of?
Yeah. So I he mean shouldn't shouldn't
give away who it is. He means like
what's the it's basically what's the
most important belief to you? What's the
last belief that you would give up?
Oh. Um, the last belief that I would
give up is that people
are inherently good somewhere deep down
that rejection and insecurity and lack
of communication drive cruelty. And that
I'm not going to give up on a world
where we can actually connect good
people together because I think there's
a lot of lot of good people out there
that just need a kinder way to connect.
Amen. Thank you, Whitney.
Thank you.
Quick one. Some of you may know we've
got a brand new sponsor for this
podcast. It's American Express. And this
partnership still blows my mind as I'm
an avid user of American Express. So,
with that being said, let me tell you
about their new business platinum card
benefits. Firstly, new card members will
receive a 200 annual travel credit to be
spent when you spend at American Express
travel online on flights, hotels, and
car rentals. Secondly, if you need help
with your expenses, then American
Express business cards offer Amex
Expense, which is simply a brand new and
free expenses management service for its
business platinum card holders, where
you just need to upload your receipts
and invoices as you go. This streamlined
system can be integrated with your
accounting software. You will also be
able to monitor and generate expense
reports straight through Amex expense
platform. A total game changer and it
saved me so much time. And lastly, as an
American Express Business Platinum card
member, you have access to a wide
variety of American Express offers,
including digital subscription to the
Times, the Sunday Times, worth £300. So,
if you'd like to find out how you can
get your hands on your new American
Express business card, then search
American Express Business Platinum Card
to find out more. Quick one from our
longest standing sponsor here. I I can't
tell you over the last I'd say over the
last really it's been about two and a
half years. It was really um post
pandemic how much my health has become
such a huge priority in my life and I
have this laser laser focused on what
I'm putting into my body. It's funny
because as you get older you can start
to feel the things you're putting into
your body more and more and more. Um and
if I if I put something into my body
especially things like gluten if I put
those things in my body I feel them
tremendously the next day. My energy
levels my sleep and everything in
between. Hule has been probably the most
important partner in my health journey
because I've been in the boardrooms.
I've been to their offices tens and tens
and tens and tens of times. I've seen
how they make their decisions on
nutrition and I trust it. Most of my
team that are in this room with me
consume it and get the benefits of it
too. So if you haven't already tried
here, do so.
Heat. Heat. N.
[Music]